print ( "This is a conversation")

name = input("Hello what is your name?")
print("Hello " + name + "! Im EduBot , a set conversation built to educate you on a certain topic." )

age = input("How old are you?")
print("So you are " + age + " years old, intesting." )

name = input("This conversation is to educate about the topic of the first battle of panipat, type anything if you wish to learn about it!")
print("I shall start off with the first piece of information!")
print("The First Battle of Panipat, on 21 April 1526, was fought between the invading forces of Babur and the Lodi dynasty.")
print("It took place in north India and marked the beginning of the Mughal Empire and the end of the Delhi Sultanate.")
print("This was one of the earliest battles involving gunpowder firearms and field artillery in the Indian subcontinent which were introduced by Mughals in this battle.")

name = input("Now I shall move into the background of this event, please type anything to continue")
print("Ok, thank you for confirming")
print("After losing Samarkand for the second time, Babur gave attention to conquer India as he reached the banks of the Chenab in 1519.")
print("Until 1524, his aim was to only expand his rule to Punjab, mainly to fulfil his ancestor Timur's legacy, since it used to be part of his empire.")
print("At that time, parts of north India were under the rule of Ibrahim Lodi of the Lodi dynasty, but the empire was crumbling and there were many defectors. ")
print("He received invitations from Daulat Khan Lodi, Governor of Punjab and Ala-ud-Din, uncle of Ibrahim. ")
print("He sent an ambassador to Ibrahim, claiming himself the rightful heir to the throne of the country, however the ambassador was detained at Lahore and released months later. ")
input("Now I shall get into the around the start of the battle, please type anything if you wish to continue")
print("Babur started for Lahore, Punjab, in 1524 but found that Daulat Khan Lodi had been driven out by forces sent by Ibrahim Lodi.")
print("When Babur arrived at Lahore, the Lodi army marched out and was routed. ")
print("In response, Babur burned Lahore for two days, then marched to Dipalpur, placing Alam Khan, another rebel uncle of Lodi's, as governor. ")
print("Alam Khan was quickly overthrown and fled to Kabul. ")
print("In response, Babur supplied Alam Khan with troops who later joined up with Daulat Khan Lodi and together with about 30,000 troops, they besieged Ibrahim Lodi at Delhi. ")
print("He defeated them and drove Alam's army off; and Babur realised Lodi would not allow him to occupy the Punjab. ")
input("Now I shall move onto battle itself, please type anything to continue")
print("Hearing of the size of Ibrahim's army, Babur secured his right flank against the city of Panipat, while digging a trench covered with tree branches to secure his left flanks.")
print("In the centre, he placed 700 carts tied together with ropes. ")
print("Between every two carts, there were breastworks for his matchlock men. ")
print("Babur also ensured that there was enough space for his soldiers to rest their guns and fire. ")
print("Babur referred to this method as the Ottoman device due to its previous use by the Ottomans during the Battle of Chaldiran. ")
print("When Ibrahim's army arrived, he found the approach to Babur's army too narrow to attack. ")
print("While Ibrahim redeployed his forces to allow for the narrower front, Babur quickly took advantage of the situation to flank tulghuma the Lodi army. ")
print("Many of Ibrahim's troops were unable to get into action, and fled when the battle turned against them.")
print(" Ibrahim Lodi was killed while trying to retreat and beheaded. 20,000 Lodi soldiers were killed in battle. ")
input("Thank you very much for reading all the way till here, now I will talk about the aftermath, please type anything to continue")
print("Ibrahim Lodi died on the field of battle along with 20,000 of his troops.")
print("The battle of Panipat was militarily a decisive victory for Timurids. ")
print("Politically it gained Babur new lands, and initiated a new phase of his establishment of the long-lasting Mughal Empire in the heart of the Indian Subcontinent. ")
name = input("Thank you very, very much for reading all this way , if you wish to begin from the start again, repeat the program, and type in your name if you wish to view the credits!")
print("Credits:")
print("Arpan Sarkar : Code")
print("Arpan Sarkar : Idea")
print(name + " : For spending your time in this project " )
